[[CC6 Financial Sector 2020.pdf]] #todo

## 4.4.1 Role of financial markets 
- **Financial market**: Any convenient set of arrangements where buyers and sellers can buy or trade a range of services or assets that are fundamentally monetary in nature.
- **Capital markets**: Financial markets that provide short-term borrowing and lending, usually defined as up to one year.
- **Retail banks**: Banks that provide services to individuals.
- **Commercial banks**: Banks that provide services to businesses.
- **Investment banks**: Banks that engage in a variety of activities in different financial markets, such as the foreign exchange market, the money markets, the capital markets and derivatives markets.
- **Saving**: Is what is not spent out of disposable income.
- **Equity**: a share in a company.
- **Derivatives**: Financial instruments based on the values of other financial instruments.

1. To facilitate savings (ie for housing, acquisitions)
2. To lend to businesses and individuals (ie for housing, acquisitions or public projects)
	1. UK gov borrows by issuing treasury bills repayable after 91 days.
	2. Companies issue bills of exchange.
	3. Banks borrow overnight from each other.
3. To facilitate the exchange of goods and services
	1. Central bank mints coins & notes.
	2. Cheque services.
	3. Credit cards.
	4. Buying and selling foreign currency.
4. To provide forward markets in currencies and commodities
	1. Farmers can agree to sell crops at a price on a future date.
	2. Forward markets are an example of a derivative.
5. To provide a market for equities
	1. A company may sell shares to finance expansion.
	2. Stock markets provide a second hand market for shares.

## 4.4.2 Market failure in the financial sector 
- **Asymmetric information**: Where buyers and sellers have different amount of information, with one group having more information than the other.
- **Production externalities**: Where the social costs of production are different from the private costs of production.
- **Moral hazard**: A market bubble occurs when the price of a particular asset is driven to an unsustainably high level and then collapses.
- **Market rigging**: Where a group of individuals fix prices to get gains for themselves at the expense of others.

An abundance of cheap credit from Really low interest rates from the US gov + Japan allowing bankers to have Leverage (Borrowing money to increase the outcome of the deal). These bankers then made Collateralised debt obligations (CDOs) which is Three cascading trays of investment. Safe, Okay and Risky with an increasing amount of return.
Ratings agencies then rate the risk of each investment. Due to a high demand for CDOs brokers started offering Sub-prime mortgages: Mortgages that are available to people who may be unable to pay their mortgages. When the people were unable to pay their debts the whole system failed.

## 4.4.3 Role of central banks
- **Central bank**: The financial institution in a country or group of countries, typically responsible for the printing and issuing of notes and coins, interest rates, monetary policy, and managing the reserves / debt.
- **Lender of last resort**: Usually a function of a central bank, it occurs when financial institutions can obtain money from the central bank to balance their accounts when they are unable to do this from the financial markets in which they operate.
- **Shadow banking**: Parts of the financial market that are either much less regulated than the norm or are completely unregulated.
- **Systemic risk**: In the context of financial markets, the danger that the failure of parts of the financial system will lead to the collapse of the whole financial system.
- **Regulatory capture**: A government failure where firms are able to influence a regulatory body to give favourable rules.

### The role of the Bank of England
1. Issue Money 
	Money is a medium of exchange. It is required to avoid the means of bartering and promotes specialisation. It needs to hold value, can be saved and exchanged at a later time.
2. Prices & and the value of your monetary 
	Needs to keep the value of money the same so that the Populus don't spend money immediately or never spend it. The value also dictates that if it is too low then people will simply not work.
3. Controlling spending
	The bank of England needs to control spending in order to control inflation which affects the value of money.
4. The financial system 
	The bank of England needs to control the financial system and make sure that the general Populus don't lose their money due to other's mistakes.
5. The money-go-round
	The bank of England acts as a lender of last resort and helps banks loan money to each other to cover small debts.
6. Keeping confidence
	The bank of England has to help the public keep confidence in the financial system. It does this by helping or closing failing banks and loans money to banks in case they are unable to pay back debts.
7. How it works.
	The bank of England is multiple separate bodies in one:
	- The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) 
		- The MPC meets at the bank of England. It is chaired by the Governor of the Bank. There are 9 members in total, 5 from the bank and 4 independent experts.
		- The MPC meets monthly to decide on the Bank Rate and the amount of QE.
		- The MPC is responsible for meeting the government's inflation target.
		- The MPC publishes the minutes of its meetings (8 times a year) and if the inflation target of 2% is missed the Governor must send an open letter to the Chancellor.
	- Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA)
		- The PRA, through regulation, **sets standards/policies which it expects firms to meet and monitors compliance against these**. It assesses whether financial firms are safe and sound.
	- Financial Policy Committee (FPC)
		- The Financial Policy Committee (FPC) **leads our work on financial stability**. It identifies and monitors risks that threaten the resilience of the UK financial system as a whole. It also has power to take action to counter those risks.
	- Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
		- The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) **regulates the financial services industry in the UK**. Its role includes protecting consumers, keeping the industry stable, and promoting healthy competition between financial service providers.