## 3.2.1 Business objectives
#### Profit maximisation 
Traditional view in economics. Firm seeks to maximise short run profits by producing where MC = MR. Assumes owners control the management of the business. 

#### Revenue maximisation 
Manager controlled firms would try to maximise sales revenue as the larger the size of a firm the higher is likely to be the pay fringe benefits and prestige of senior managers. Optimal position is where MR = 0. 

#### Sales maximisation 
Maximising sales. Manager focus on volume of sales, therefore output even higher. Output increased up to break even point. May occur in manager controlled business as a larger business means higher benefits to managers.

#### Long run profit maximisation
Short run objective may be increased market power which leads to higher profits overtime. Short run profit maximisation suggests firms constantly adjust price in response to changes in demand, but firm may prefer to keep stable prices perhaps using cost-plus pricing.

#### Social enterprises
An organisation that applies commercial strategies to maximize improvements in human and environmental wellbeing rather than maximising profits for external shareholders.

### Satisficing 
Businesses are defined and ran by it's stakeholders. These are groups who have an interest in the activity and performance outcomes of a business. 
**Satisficing** means achieving a satisfactory objective acceptable to all the competing member groups of the coalition that makes up the firm. **Profit satisficing** means making sufficient profit to satisfy the demands of the shareholders. 
Profit satisficing may be used to avoid the attention of regulatory authorities: High profits may make government regulator believe firm is exploiting monopoly power.
